# Power-Consumption-Dataset
Power consumption in different states in India (2019-2020)
# Context
India is the world's third-largest producer and third-largest consumer of electricity. The national electric grid in India has an installed capacity of 370.106 GW as of 31 March 2020. Renewable power plants, which also include large hydroelectric plants, constitute 35.86% of India's total installed capacity. During the 2018-19 fiscal year, the gross electricity generated by utilities in India was 1,372 TWh and the total electricity generation (utilities and non-utilities) in the country was 1,547 TWh. The gross electricity consumption in 2018-19 was 1,181 kWh per capita.
In 2015-16, electric energy consumption in agriculture was recorded as being the highest (17.89%) worldwide. The per capita electricity consumption is low compared to most other countries despite India having a low electricity tariff.

In light of the recent COVID-19 situation, when everyone has been under lockdown for the months of April & May the impacts of the lockdown on economic activities have been faced by every sector in a positive or a negative way.
With the electricity consumption being so crucial to the country, we came up with a plan to study the impact on energy consumption state and region wise.

The dataset is exhaustive in its demonstration of energy consumption state wise.

# Content
Data is in the form of a time series for a period of 17 months beginning from 2nd Jan 2019 till 23rd May 2020.
Rows are indexed with dates and columns represent states.
Rows and columns put together, each datapoint reflects the power consumed in Mega Units (MU) by the given state (column) at the given date (row).

# Acknowledgements
Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO) is a wholly-owned Government of India enterprise under the Ministry of Power. It was earlier a wholly-owned subsidiary of Power Grid Corporation of India Limited. It was formed in March 2009 to handle the power management functions of PGCIL.

The dataset has been scraped from the weekly energy reports of POSOCO.


